# Release process

We use semantic versioning for `obsctl` in format `vX.Y.Z`.

We also ship binaries, read [docs on how to install](https://github.com/observatorium/obsctl#installing). Users can also use `go install` to install obsctl.

We follow a simple release process as follows:
1. Create a PR against `main` to update the `version/version.go` and `VERSION` file to the appropriate next version (and remove the `-dev` suffix).
   - Normally, with the current (early) state of the project, we always target the next minor version (e.g. we bump from `v0.1.0` to `v0.2.0`), unless there is a compelling reason to release a **patch** version.
   - We also usually do not have release candidates, with the exception of the initial release.
2. Once the PR from 1. is approved and merged, start drafting a new release from the [GitHub web UI](https://github.com/observatorium/obsctl/releases/new).
3. Prepare a new **tag** that will be created together with release. Do this by clicking on `Choose a tag` -> put the new tag into the input field in format `vX.Y.Z`.
4. Prepare the release title and description. The release title should correspond to the release version. The description can be generated by clicking on `Auto-generate release notes`. If the release includes any significant changes, feel free to add a one-sentence summary at the top of the description. If there are any noisy or redundant entries in the auto-generated list, feel free to remove them.
5. CircleCI `publish_release` job should run and upload the release artifacts to the release.
6. Open a new PR against `main`, this time updating `version/version.go` and `VERSION` to the next minor release with `-dev` suffix (`vX.(Y+1).Z-dev`).